---
layout: default
title: 2.1.5 Land Antibiotics
parent: 2.1 Land  
nav_order: 9 
---
<div class="justify-text" markdown="1">

## 2.1.5 Land Antibiotics

### 1 Source

In our grid-based and nested structured modeling framework, the model provides capability in locating antibiotic sources and characterizing the spatial extents and temporal dynamics of emission exports from the sources. Four major sources of antibiotics in a catchment are considered in the model, including wastewaters from point sources, atmospheric deposition, livestock farms, and rural households. Discharge outlets of wastewaters from point sources are matched with river segments. Antibiotic loads in wastewaters are calculated by effluent discharges and antibiotic concentrations and directly enter into the corresponding rivers. The model allows atmospheric antibiotic deposition on both land grids and river segments. Livestock farms and rural households, which export animal wastes (i.e., manures and urines) and human excreta, are the two primary NPSs for antibiotics pollution in agro-ecosystems. Antibiotic emissions from both sources can be estimated by determining the antibiotic usage per unit of animal/humans, metabolic efficiency, and the total number of animal/humans. In rural areas without sewer networks, human excreta are not typically discharged directly into the environment but are instead collected and biologically treated through anaerobic processes using residential septic tanks. We specifically present an algorithm for simulating the storage dynamics of antibiotics in a residential septic tank, which are impacted by daily input of human excreta, regular cleaning, degradation, and fertilization schemes. Each cleaning, conducted at intervals such as every two months or as determined by local management practices, completely empties the tank. At the time of fertilization, all the accumulated excreta in the septic tanks are used for fertilization. After estimating the antibiotic exports from livestock farms and rural households, it is essential to delineate the areas of antibiotic application to accurately reflect the spatial extent of source exports. For example, farmers commonly utilize human excreta as fertilizer, applying it to their croplands which are located in close proximity to their residences. Our model innovatively incorporates a radius-based search algorithm to explicitly delineate the influential extents of the sources. It first identifies grids containing livestock farms and villages by their geographical locations. Then, for each identified source grid, a round area defined by a specific radius is established. Within this circle, the algorithm specifically searches for and focuses on targeted land use types in which wastes and excreta are fertilized. This method allows for a more realistic distribution of pollutants across the landscape, reflecting actual dispersal patterns and environmental interactions. The model accommodates up to two types of crops within each grid, facilitating agricultural practices such as intercropping and crop rotation which lead to different fertilization schemes and magnitudes of antibiotics inputs to agricultural lands.

### 2 Soil

In the terrestrial land, we define a 10 mm mixing layer in the land surface to represent the dynamic exchanges among antibiotics, surface runoff, and soil erosions, given that wastes and excreta are predominantly applied to a rather thin topsoil layer. Because most antibiotics from fertilization are contained in this superficial mixing layer, with the remainder penetrating into the first soil layer, a distribution coefficient should be set according to the fertilization conditions.  In each soil layer, we develop a dual-domain structure consisting of labile and stable pools to simulate sorption, transformation, degradation, and movement of dissolved and sorbed antibiotics in the soil (Figure 2.1.5-1). The labile pools represent the mobile regions in which antibiotics are readily available to transport and react. Microbial or abiotic transformations can only occur in the labile pool. The stable pools are the immobile region to represent the persistence of antibiotics, where advective flows by the hydrological pathways are not allowed. Within both the labile and stable pools, the antibiotic mass is further partitioned into dissolved and sorbed phases. Previous studies suggested that a linear partition coefficient (\\(K_{p,soil}\\)), the ratio of antibiotics concentration in the sorbed phase to the antibiotics concentration in the dissolved phase) can reasonably reflect the sorption process at the water-solid interface for a wider range concentrations and soil properties.


The model allows the mass of dissolved antibiotics to transfer between the two pools, driven by the mass gradient via a delayed first-order process, which is characterized as:

$$
F_\text{ex} = (M_\text{sta,dis} - M_\text{lab,dis}) \cdot K_\text{ex} \cdot \frac{1}{1 + K_\text{p,soil} \cdot \rho_\text{b} / \phi_\text{sol}}
$$

where \\(F_{ex}\\) (mg m<sup>-2</sup>) is the exchange mass between the two pools, a positive value indicates an increase of mass in the labile pool, and vice versa, \\(M_{sta,dis}\\) and \\(M_{lab,dis}\\) are dissolved mass in the stable and labile pools, respectively, \\(K_{ex}\\) (day m<sup>-1</sup>) is the transfer rate, \\(K_{p,soil}\\) (L kg<sup>-1</sup>) is the partition coefficient in the soil, \\(ρ_{b}\\) (g cm<sup>-3</sup>) is the bulk density of the soil layer, \\(ϕ_{sol}\\) (mm mm<sup>-1</sup>) is the porosity of the soil layer. The basic equations for the pool mass and rearrangement to solve dissolved and sorbed concentrations are provided in the SI Text S3. 

The model accounts for antibiotic degradation in the soil, which varies in susceptibility across different antibiotics. For example, quinolones and sulfonamides are sensitive to photodegradation while macrolides are rather persistent. The degradation rate in the mixing layer is also higher due to the increased exposure to sunlight and higher soil temperature than that in lower soil layers. Numerous studies used the half-life of a substance to quantify its degradation processes and corrected the degradation rate by the temperature based on the Arrhenius law. Therefore, the exponential process of degradation in a soil layer for a given type of antibiotic considering the impact of temperature is quantified as:

$$
F_{\text{deg,lab}} = M_{\text{lab}} \cdot \left\{ 1 - \exp \left[ -\frac{\ln(2)}{DT_{50,\text{soil}}} \cdot K_{T}^{T-20} \right] \right\}
$$

where \\(F_{deg,lab}\\) (mg m<sup>-2</sup>) is the degraded amount in the labile pool, \\(M_{lab}\\) (mg m<sup>-2</sup>) is the mass in the labile pool, \\(DT50_{sol}\\) (day) is the half-life for the given antibiotic in the soil, \\(K_{T}\\) (-) is the temperature correction factor, T (°C) is the soil temperature simulated in the hydrology module. The degradation amount in the stable pool (\\(F_{deg,sta}\\), mg m<sup>-2</sup>) is calculated by the same form.

The simulated movement of the antibiotics in the soil includes vertical leaching through percolation, and longitudinal transport by runoff and soil erosion, which is controlled by solubility, soil water content, partition coefficient, and soil erosion rate. The dissolved antibiotics concentration for mobilization in the mixing layer and the soil layers should be calculated first, which is given by:

$$ 
Conc_\text{mob} = \frac{M_\text{lab}}{w_\text{mob}} \cdot \left[ 1 - \exp \left( \frac{-w_\text{mob}}{\theta_\text{sat} + K_\text{p,soil} \cdot \rho_\text{b} \cdot Thick_\text{soil}} \right) \right]
$$

where \\(Conc_{mob}\\) (mg m<sup>-2</sup> mm<sup>-1</sup>) is the concentration of antibiotics in the mobile water, M_lab (mg m<sup>-2</sup>) is the pool mass in the labile pool, \\(θ_{sat}\\) (mm H<sub>2</sub>O) is the soil water content at saturation, \\(ρ_{b}\\) (kg m<sup>-3</sup>) is the bulk density of the soil layer, Thick_soil (m) is the thickness of the soil layer, \\(K_{p,soil}\\) (L kg<sup>-1</sup>) is the partition coefficient in the soil, \\(w_{mob}\\) (mm H<sub>2</sub>O) is the mobile water in the soil layer. For the mixing layer, w_mob includes surface runoff and percolation, while for the rest soil layers, w_mob includes percolation and interflow.

Thus, the transport mass of dissolved antibiotics by the mobile water is calculated as:

$$
F_{\text{surf}}|_\text{ly=0} = Conc_\text{mob,ly} \cdot R_{\text{surf}} \cdot \beta_{\text{surf}}
$$

$$ 
F_{\text{intf}}|_\text{ly>0} = Conc_\text{mob,ly} \cdot R_{\text{intf}}|_\text{ly>0} 
$$

$$ 
F_{\text{lch,ly}} = Conc_{\text{mob,ly}} \cdot w_{\text{perc,ly}} 
$$

where F_ero (mg m<sup>-2</sup>) is eroded antibiotics mass in the mixing layer, \\(Conc_{sorb}|{ly=0}\\) (mg kg<sup>-1</sup>) is the concentration of sorbed antibiotics in the mixing layer, Ero_sed (g m<sup>-2</sup>) is the rate of soil erosion calculated by the sediment module, \\(ε\\) (-) is the enrichment ratio to reflect the selective process where lighter and smaller particles enriched with antibiotics are preferentially removed. The model references the logarithmical relationship and estimates \\(ε\\) as:

$$ 
\varepsilon = 0.78 \cdot \left( \frac{Ero_\text{sed}}{R_\text{surf}} \right)^{-0.2468} 
$$

</div>